hey what's up guys Happy New Year this
new year I celebrated by going back to
my hometown Chongqing China and had a
crazy overnight party with all my
friends but now it's a beginning of
January and you know what that means we
have to go back to school and with that
you probably have a list of New Year's
resolutions you want to achieve this
year but tell me if this is you every
single year you have this huge list of
things you want to change in your life
change about yourself or the habits you
want to add but after you a week or two
it just starts fading away and you kind
of forget about it or you just give up
completely because you cannot stick to
all those things you listed on your new
year's resolutions so the problem with
that is because you're trying to change
too much of once that's why your New
Year's resolutions are not sticking so
today I want to bring you 10 micro
habits these are small tiny little
actions you can implement right now into
your life that requires a very minimal
effort but these actions are eventually
going to build up to a huge
transformational change in your life and
eventually achieve those New Year's
resolution you have for yourself oh my
god that's amazing so now let's jump
into the 10 micro habits I've collected
from Harvard students while interviewing
them and following their day on the
campus Corral series so the first micro
habit is to drink more water what it
helps you feel more energetic it helps
you feel alive I think about 5 liters of
water every single day drinking more
water it also allows your body to
cleanse itself meaning that you are
gonna get rid of all the toxins you have
inside of your system making you be able
to think more clearly we all know now
saying you got to drink 8 glasses of
water a day but many of us don't even
drink through your four glasses wanting
and right
I drank that I felt an instant burst of
energy I don't know if you can tell
through that my video but I feel more
alive more energetic more awake and
unlike energy drinks or a coffee
you don't feel the crash so that's why
this habit has totally changed my life
whenever you feel thirsty
drink water the second micro habit is to
limit your social media usage I know
this is a hard struggle for all of us I
used to wake up with my phone by my side
and watch youtube videos for like an
hour and it really ruins your
productivity for the rest of the day and
that's not even to mention how
distracting social media is while you do
your work and let me give you a simple
tip you can just implement and forget
about no way that's so now there's all I
phones and maybe even some Android
phones have a feature called screen time
and this feature tracks all your app
usage throughout the day and you can set
app limits so meaning after you reach a
certain time limit I set my social media
usage to around 25 minutes a day it will
notify you and it will automatically
force you to stop using the app although
there's ways to very easily bypasses I
think having that reminder is almost
enough for you to think oh maybe I
should put my phone down for a little
bit so after implementing this change
I went from around 7 hours of screen
time per day to now around averaging 2
to 3 hours so cutting down my phone
usage by half hour number 3 is something
I'm a huge huge believer in and
something that I've been doing for maybe
four or five years now it is planning
your day either in the morning or the
night before which one ever you prefer
you don't know how much I believe in
this because
it really just simplifies your mind when
you write down everything you need to do
and write down when you will do it the
next day there's a thing called decision
fatigue that's when you make a decision
it tires you out and having them plants
that in place helps you limit your
decisions meaning you'll be less tired
throughout the day because you already
know you're gonna do this and this and
this and this and this right you just
follow the steps of all the Ivy League
students I think almost all of them do
this and even the famous John fish on
YouTube does this to planning your
morning really helps you set the tone
for the rest of the day to tackle it
with full force and be fully effective
now there's short-term planning which is
planning your day but then there's also
long-term planning which is planning
your year or planning your semester this
is a habit that I personally do and many
Harvard University students I have
taught to do as well and I've seen me in
their calendars they do this so at the
beginning of every single semester they
input all their course schedules and
important assignments and test dates
into the calendar of their choice
usually I think it's Google Calendar he
here is not just the courses but the
important test dates & SIMON dates
because it helps you think ahead and
know which weeks are gonna be really
really stressful for you so you can
study a little bit ahead of time to
reduce that amount of stress but
personally for me I'm so lazy because
going through they're like six seven
courses that I have all the syllabuses
and entering that manually into my phone
into my calorie is so much work I hate
it that's why I'm so excited to tell you
about today's sponsor called sila buddy
and I use them at the beginning of every
single semester after I thought about
them they save me maybe like two or
three hours of work all you need to do
is take your syllabuses and upload it to
the website and the website will
automatically take all the information
in the syllabus including important test
dates assignment dates and the class
schedule then Silla buddy will output a
calendar file with all those important
dates that you can directly just import
into your Google Calendar and all of
your courses and your important
assignment dates and testings will show
up in your calendar without you having
to manually input every single class oh
my god that is so simple to use this
will save you so much time this semester
you can check out silla buddy by using
the link in my description below this
app is completely free there's no catch
you can just click the link upload your
syllabus and input those dates into your
calendar I'm I don't know why you
wouldn't use them just try it out see if
it works for you
I'm so excited they decided to sponsor
this video because I use them so check
him out
link in description we've all heard her
mom tell us to clean around but she has
never told us to clean something that we
use every single day and that's our
computer this next Harvard University
micro habit is to clean your desktop
once a week so when my friend Andy who
graduated from Harvard he showed me his
Dropbox folder and let me tell you it is
organized so cleaning imagine the
Harvard library but in a digital folder
for me it's like organized
alphabetically organized they like it's
like so easy to find things and there's
no loose files anywhere oh my god that's
so clean and I've started doing that in
my own life maybe a year ago I think
it's really helped me feel less stressed
when I use my computer when your room is
clutter your mind is cluttered when your
desktop is clutter your mind is
cluttered too same concept this is a
Harvard University student secret that
many of
you probably gloss over it's the fact
that they can study a lot less but still
get good grades and the reason is
because they go to class one but two
they actually take notes in class this
is a micro habit because let me tell you
a secret you don't need to take great
notes for your nose to be effective and
the reason is because research has shown
that simply the act of writing things
down helps you with your memory because
you are feeling two types of connections
at once one is a physical sense and two
is your mental so literally just the act
of writing things down can help you get
better grades but if you actually want
to learn how to take great notes notes
that you can actually look back on and
study from you can check out my
note-taking video up there right there
oh this next one is a heavy one because
it is working out or just going to the
gym or exercising oh you don't have to
be one of those guys you don't actually
need to go to the gym every single day I
know that's how you New Year's
resolution for a lot of you but the way
you make that Mykel habit is simply by
committing to a very small amount of
time maybe like five minutes each day
and that can build up over time every
morning when I wake up I do two things
one I immediately play a motivational
track kind of like those motivational
speeches and two I roll off lazily off
my bed and do push-ups I started with
five push-ups which is very simple for
me
and then I increased by one push-up a
day and by the end of the month I was
doing thirty five push-ups every single
morning thinking about doing thirty five
push-ups every single morning when you
wake up it might be a little daunting
right now but when you think about doing
maybe just one or maybe just five
push-ups it doesn't seem as hard so the
secret is really to start small build up
and eventually you'll be like one punch
man 100 sit-ups 100 pushups 100 squats
and 10 kilometres every single day I'm
still working towards that all right
this is probably the easiest habit of
law and you are gonna love it taking a
nap no way that's gonna help me it's to
really let me tell you sleeping can
actually increase your productivity
so this Harvard University micro habit
is to take one small nap throughout the
day maybe in the afternoon of the day
and that's when you are usually the most
tired around like 2:00 to 3:00 p.m. but
the important caveat here is that it has
to be small within a 30-minute time span
so usually I nap around 18 minutes 20
minutes and you gotta wake up because if
you don't wake up you're gonna feel
really tired and at night you can't
really sleep because you already slept a
lot during the afternoon I really love
the feeling of a nap because afterwards
it feels like I just hit refresh on the
whole system I'm ready to tackle all the
tasks I have to do for the rest of the
day
this next one sounds a little bit weird
but it's something I've noticed by
hanging around with all these Harvard
University students it's the fact that
they dig really deep into anything that
they're researching or interested in
when they're focusing on that that I
completely obsess about it so the
research everything everything around it
and that's why they outperform other
people it's because they know more and
they've done more the research more so
if you dig deeper just one layer below
what you think is necessary you are
gonna see the same benefits in your life
creeping in and you might find treasure
who knows this is a habit that's
actually gonna change your life it's
called reading it's something that we
don't do anymore
because
you tube there's Netflix there's social
media we think that is enough but
there's nothing that really compares to
a physical book and let me tell you why
books are so different and you learn so
much more from books than from maybe
watching a YouTube video it's because
people spend years and years and
sometimes their whole lifetime writing a
single book whereas a video is produced
with him maximum a week sometimes a
couple of days so the amount of depth
you getting a video does not compare to
a book reading a book is kind of
daunting because so thick and you have
to focus for so long so the Micra have a
vision of that is to read one page a day
and maybe you can increase by another
page every other day so you're reading
one page one page and then to page to
page and the three pages three pages
right that way it's not too slow where
it takes you a whole year to read a
single book and Harvard University
students really love reading I mean look
at John fish she reads a book a day and
I really started reading only in the
first year of university and since then
I've read over like 200 books that's
around 50 to 60 books a year if you
follow this I really think it's gonna
totally transform you as a person like
it did for me so this video is my New
Year's gift to you and you can give me a
New Year's gift by smashing that like
button and that subscribe button down
below because it really helps me out
with a YouTube algorithm thank you